  

What is a Power Bi Developer?
A Power BI developer is a specialist who has a thorough understanding of the Power BI platform and its tools.  
The entire responsibility for the development and administration of BI tools falls on a power BI developer. 
One of the responsibilities and guidelines for Power BI developers is to convert raw data into informative dashboards and reports.

What are the power BI developer’s roles and responsibilities?
The roles and responsibilities of a Power BI developer differ from business to business. 
Power BI developers may be hired by some organizations to design and develop Power BI reports, while others may hire them to improve decision-making.
Other power BI developer skills required include in-depth knowledge and expertise in business intelligence, databases, BI tools, and so on.

Power BI developer's roles and responsibilities :
·      Study, Analysis, and Understanding of Business Requirements in The Context Of Business Intelligence.

·      Design and Map Data Models to Shift Raw Data into Meaningful Insights.

·      Utilize To Build Interactive Dashboards And Reports.

·      Spot Key Performance Indicators with Apt Objectives.

·      Analyse Previous And Present Data For Better Decision-Making.

·      Transform Business Requirements Into Technical Publications.

·      Build Multi-Dimensional Data Models.

·      Develop Strong Data Documentation About Algorithms, Parameters, And Models.

·      Run DAX Queries and Functions In Power BI.

·      Define And Design New Systems.

·      Take Care Of Data Warehouse Development.

·      Make Essential Technical And Strategic Changes To Improvise Present Business Intelligence Systems.

·      Identify The Requirements And Develop Custom Charts Accordingly.

·      SQL Querying For Better Results.

 To put it briefly, the Power BI developer is responsible For Everything Related To Power BI.


Power BI developer Skills:

To begin with, fluency or familiarity with business intelligence and data analytics is one of the most crucial skills that a Power BI developer must acquire. 
Along with presentation strategies and ideas, power BI developers also need to understand modeling, data warehousing, and data integration. 


Essential Power BI Developer skills:


->Familiarity with business intelligence products:

Experience is something that can only be acquired; it cannot be purchased. Furthermore, nothing can ever fully replace the power of experience,
no matter how much knowledge one should have. The same is true for Power BI developers. One of the most important requirements for a Power BI developer 
is having prior experience with BI systems and tools. They also need to be skilled in writing DAX expressions, implementing security, and creating Complex dashboards.

If a Power BI Developer is knowledgeable in Python or other scripting languages that will be an added benefit.

->Expertise in roles involving data: 

One needs at least two to three years of BI tool experience to be considered for any data-specific roles as a Power BI Developer. 
Additionally, they should be familiar with online analytical processing, data management, SQL querying, and data modeling.

->Well-versed in the Microsoft BI stack:

A thorough understanding of the Microsoft Business Intelligence stack, including Power Pivot, SSRS, SSIS, and SSAS, will be an added benefit for the Power BI Developer.
Microsoft's services and products are used by many organizations. For this reason, having a knowledgeable Power BI Developer is unquestionably the icing on top.
