What is Power BI?

 Power BI is a robust business intelligence (BI) platform developed by Microsoft. It empowers non-technical business professionals together, analyze, visualize, 
and share data effectively. This tool has gained immense popularity due to its user-friendly interface and seamless integration with other Microsoft applications.

Power BI offers cloud-based services for interactive visualizations with a simple interface for end users to create their reports and dashboards. 
It is one of the most widely used BI tools. Power BI allows users to connect to various data sources, create customized data models, and build interactive 
dashboards and reports.

Power BI is a collection of software services, apps, and connectors that work together to turn your unrelated sources of data into coherent, visually immersive, and 
interactive insights. Your data might be an Excel spreadsheet or a collection of cloud-based and on-premises hybrid data warehouses. Power BI lets you easily connect to
your data sources, visualize and discover what's important, and share that with anyone or everyone you want.

Different Power BI versions like Desktop, Service-based (SaaS), and mobile Power BI apps are used for different platforms. It provides multiple software
connectors and services for business intelligence.


Why do we use Power BI?

•	Pre-built dashboards and reports for SaaS Solutions
•	Power BI allows real-time dashboard updates. – It means once you create a report using the push semantic model,
you can pin any of the report visuals to a dashboard. On that dashboard, visuals update in real-time whenever the data
is updated. Within the Power BI service, the dashboard triggers a tile refresh every time new data is received.
•	Offers Secure and reliable connection to your data sources in the cloud or on-premises (On-premises refers to IT
infrastructure hardware and software applications that are hosted on-site).
•	Power BI offers Quick deployment, hybrid configuration, and a secure environment.
•	Allows data exploration using natural language query
•	Offers feature for dashboard visualization regularly updated with the community.



The Versions of Power BI
·     Power BI Desktop
·     Power BI service
·     Power BI Mobile Apps
 

Power BI Desktop :

Power BI Desktop is the primary authoring and publishing tool for Power BI Developers and power users use it to create brand-new models and reports from scratch.

Power BI Desktop - Costs: Free

Power BI service:

Online Software as a Service (SaaS) where Power Bl data models, reports, and dashboards are hosted. Administration, sharing, and collaboration happen in the cloud.

Pro license: $10/user/month

Power BI Mobile Apps:

The Power BI mobile app is available for iOS, Android, and Windows. It can be managed using Microsoft Intune. 
You can use this tool to view reports and dashboards on the Power Bl Service Report Server.


Who uses Power BI?
-Project management office (PMO) – Project and Portfolio Manager.
-Business & Data Analyst
-Developer & Database Administrator
-IT Team, IT Professional
-Consumer for End User Report
-Data Scientist
